---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Reflect on Javascript
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-01-17
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

# Javascript & My feelings <3

So far, I like Javascript. Even for a language that was [built in literally 10 days](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript#History), its pervasiveness into web browser technology makes it so unique to understand. 

I have some experience with Javascript before, but have not used it in a while. I think that this was a good refresher on using Javascript and on the added ES6 functionality. I think the last time I was using JS, ES6 was still not integrated into web browsers at that time so babel needed to be used to compile back to ES5. The added functinoality of ES6 is just... pure relief. 

# Technical Review of Javascript 
My experience doesn’t come from traditional low-level software engineering so my understanding of the ECMAScript environment is probably different than others. 
## Pros
I think that some features of ES6 that I wasn’t too familiar with before, are very useful like the ability to use classes, arrow functions, and let/const. The AirBnB guide is amazingly useful for code refactoring because it allows me to default to well-read code that can be easily understood. 
## Cons? 
I think that duck-typing can be a blessing or curse depending on the situation. Typescript does solve that, and since it is an optional superset, types can be required only where they need to be. 


# Athletic Programming 

I realized that I’m not great at speed coding in an athletic way. I think I was overthinking the problem at first and then over-planning. In a testing suite environment, the first objective is to write just enough code to make it work. I would think that in a timed environment, it is the same way. I think over time I’ll improve with the time management aspect of athletic programming. Next time I think I need to keep my planning to a minimum before writing any code. 
